Namaskar, I am Yash Vaidya. Welcome to Lok Satta's Podcast.
Friends, many things that happen around us are precious to us.
That's why Lok Satta has brought to you the Kutuhal Podcast.
Today's podcast is about plastic in the body of marine life.
In 1965, a plastic bag was found on a device used by fishermen in the Irish Sea.
The world's largest marine organization has declared that this is the first case of plastic waste in the sea water.
Since then, plastic waste has been going into the sea for decades.
According to surveys carried out by various institutions on the international level,
there is a total of 20 crore metric tons of plastic waste in the sea today.
Every year, there is a total of 381 lakh tons of plastic waste in the sea.
A large part of the sea shore is made up of broken and unusable nets of fish.
Plastic nets, small and large fish,
the bodies of many species of marine animals,
the face of which gets clogged, clogged, and becomes a physical torture.
A survey has shown that 10 lakh sea birds and 1 lakh marine animals die of plastic waste every year.
Plastic is stuck in fish of the same species on all three sides.
Due to the collision of the waves and sunlight in the sea,
slowly plastic bottles or bags become small pieces and eventually turn into very fine particles.
In recent times, the particles of very fine plastic in the sea
have entered the human body through the sea and are causing harm to the health.
In 2014, PVC and polythene were found in the rocks of the sea in Hawaii.
These rocks have been named plastic lomerits.
The Coastal Survey of Kolkata has found large amounts of such rocks in the Andaman Sea in May 2022.
These rocks have created a threat to the lives of the residents.
Research is still underway on this.
In the end, it is necessary for all ordinary citizens to come together to fight this infinite monster of plastic.
Plastic waste thrown into the sea is thrown out by the sea many times.
We have seen this on the shore many times.
Now we should respect this sea.
So you were listening to Lok Satta's Kutuhal Podcast.
To hear such new topics, visit loksatta.com's audio section.
And for the notification of new episodes, don't forget to like and follow Lok Satta's Podcast on your favorite audio platform.
